- DAY [[2022-06-19]]
  author:: geekplux
	- ## Things I found out Today
	- ## What I read Today
		- [Vocabulary as a Meta Mental Model | Neil Kakkar](https://neilkakkar.com/vocabulary-mental-model.html) #[[Learning Method]] #Life #Experience 
		  > Most cognitive biases work that way. Once you find out what availability bias is, you can figure out where you’ve fallen for it. Noticing availability bias without knowing it is much harder.
		  > Experience does exactly the same. Once you know what Availability Bias is, you notice yourself falling for it. Once this happens a few times, these situations become your stories to **pattern match**. Of course, if you don’t have a system to log them, you’ll go through a lot more mistakes before you find them.
		  > In complex cases, just knowing the name wouldn’t suffice. But this still serves an important purpose. It brings the situation into the “things you know that you don’t know” bucket. Without the name, they stay in the unknown unknown.
		  > Where to expand
		  > * Diving into a culture dense in information has higher chances of containing vocabulary you don’t know.
		  > * dive deep into fields you know nothing about. Economics, Psychology, Philosophy, Physics, or applied rationality.
		  
		  #+BEGIN_IMPORTANT
		  The better your vocabulary, the more things you can name, the richer your base of raw materials to hang new ideas and experiences on.
		  The better your vocabulary, the more aware you become about possible categorisation errors.
		  The better your vocabulary, the more stories you can chunk, the more experiences you can pattern match.7
		  Improve your vocabulary.
		  #+END_IMPORTANT
	- ## Schedule