- DAY [[2023-07-30]]
  author:: geekplux
	- ## Things I found out Today
		- [archives.design](https://archives.design/) - A digital archive of [[Graphic Design]] related items that are available on the Internet Archives
	- ## What I read Today
		- [A World of Controversy for Worldcoin](https://www.bankless.com/worldcoin-critiques)
		  [[Worldcoin]] 发布，万众瞩目，不仅是在币圈，还在资本圈。我想破圈的主要原因是因为 Worldcoin 创始人里有 [[OpenAI]] 的创始人 [[Sam Altman]] 吧。币圈的信噪比实在太低了，这篇文章大概总结了一下目前 Worldcoin 的一些问题和面临的各类批评。其实主要根源还是大家对“去中心化”的不信任、对工程复杂度没信心和对数据隐私的担忧等
		- [Why books donʼt work | Andy Matuschak](https://andymatuschak.org/books/) - [[Andy Matuschak]] 's post
		  > Like lectures, books have no carefully-considered cognitive model at their foundation, but the medium does have an *implicit* model. And like lectures, *that model is [[transmissionism]]*. Sequences of words in sequences of lines in sequences of pages, the form of a book suggests *people absorb knowledge by reading sentences*. In caricature: “The author describes an idea in words on the page; the reader reads the words; then the reader understands the idea. When the reader reaches the last page, they’ve finished the book.”
			- mainly explores the limitations of books and lectures as traditional mediums for knowledge [[transmission]].
			- The author does not deny the importance of books, but if we honestly ask ourselves, how much of the many books we've read can we truly absorb? Perhaps right after reading, we think we can summarize the content, but after some time, we may only remember fragments, and later on, without looking at the table of contents, we might not even recall what the book was about.
			- The author then begins to explain the ineffectiveness of reading by discussing "why lectures don't work." He believes that both mediums are flawed because they commit the error of **transmissionism**,
				- [[Lectures]] rely on the audience hearing every word from beginning to end, expecting them to fully understand the speaker's points.
				- Reading relies on understanding knowledge through reading sentences; the author describes knowledge with words, and the reader reads from beginning to end, supposedly understanding it.
			- These methods are unscientific because they do not engage the way humans truly grasp knowledge—our ** [[cognitive]] process**.
			- >*to understand something, you must actively engage with it*.
			- We master knowledge or experience through continuous practice, thinking, reflection, summarizing, and repeated cycles. I believe everyone has experienced that learning through practice is the fastest. Especially for programmers, reading documentation or tutorials is never as effective as [[learning by doing]] a small project. This is because, in the entire practice process, we engage our cognitive system, thereby deepening understanding.
			- ### Why Some People Still Learn a Lot Through Reading and Lectures
				- Because these people often read with questions, constantly compare with what they already know, continually think and question, always ask themselves if they really understand. These are ways to engage the cognitive system. Some people take notes or write reviews and reflections after reading, which are also effective ways to digest knowledge. We can call this ability **metacognition**.
				- Although metacognition can be cultivated, it must be admitted that some people's metacognitive abilities are indeed above average. Or, an ordinary person can also **deliberately** engage their metacognition when reading, but this requires more effort, making it hard to persist, which is why many people cannot continue reading information-dense books.
				- Additionally, engaging cognition during reading is related to the **amount of [[long-term memory]]**. Usually, when you have a flash of insight or associative thinking while reading, you are calling on your long-term memory. Therefore, if a person's cognitive ability is strong, they will accumulate more long-term memory, making it easier to engage their cognitive system in future reading, clearly a positive cycle.
			- ### Textbooks
				- Textbooks are different from ordinary books because their design aims to **fully engage the human [[cognitive]] system**. Textbooks often have engaging stories, problem setups, clear explanations, exercises, summaries, reviews, etc. All these aim to reduce the effort students need to **engage their metacognition**, allowing them to "invisibly" grasp more knowledge.
				- Nevertheless, textbooks are still not the ideal way to transmit knowledge. They still leave most of the metacognitive burden to the reader, and their design has limitations, as it's challenging to create textbooks that adapt to everyone's learning style. For me, for example, my hearing is more sensitive than my vision, so I absorb more through audiobooks than reading.
			- ### Ideal Books (Knowledge Transmission Method)
				- The author finally imagines the future, thinking that we may currently be limited to text, audio, video, and other media, but the future will surely see more liberalized media. Future transmission methods must be **low-cost** and fully **engage human cognition**, and should increase the audience's **long-term memory** as much as possible.
	- ## Schedule